Though it would seem they are uncultured, the Shek are deeply rooted in
ancestral worship and respect. Despite their racist attitude towards
non-Shek (except Skeletons, who come the closest to earning their
respect as warriors), they are willing to accept and even worship you so
long as you prove your worth in battle. This is confirmed by fighting
and beating the [Bugmaster](Bugmaster.md "wikilink") or [](Holy_Lord_Phoenix.md), which regardless of your race
will make them praise your name and defend it to the death.

The Shek revere a legendary warrior by the name of
[Kral](Kral's_Last_Stand.md "wikilink"), who supposedly fought against
impossible odds (100 to 1 or so) in the field of battle. He was slain,
but not before taking dozens of enemies with him, earning him entry to
an afterlife known as the Gateway. It is here that warriors are said to
reside alongside the legendary warrior, likely feasting to their hearts
content and fighting for sport.

Those that reject this way of life have their horns sawed off/filed down
as a sign of dishonor, branding them a coward. This may be done on the
field of battle or once they return from a great battle, and survive
without defeating their enemy. Oftentimes the Shek in question becomes a
servant to the Empire, undertaking more menial tasks deemed unfit for a
warrior. [Bayan](Bayan.md "wikilink"), who served as Esata's right-hand
man, is one such Shek that was stripped of his honor, yet was pardoned
by the Golem and allowed to live within the court. Though she rarely
acknowledges his existence, she secretly admires his spirit, and he
continues to work similarly to a steward or scribe.

Though one can easily disregard the Shek as a species native to Kenshi,
or the product of radioactive exposure, they are more likely closely
related to humans; so close, one might be able to call them brothers and
sisters. Some skeletons, whose exposure to the outside world has been
limited since the Chaos Age, will react to the Shek with confusion,
referring to them as "Enforcers". This happens in multiple instances,
with some even commenting that their character was always the same, but
that their bone plates and spikes were more recent changes. This
evidence that the Shek had been within ancient society and their bone
plates and spikes being recent changes is also further reinforced in
[The Guiding Light](The_Guiding_Light_Series.md "wikilink") IV, where
Okranite theologians claimed that Sheks were created as a brother of
Okran, however, due to their aggressive nature and rejection of Okran's
light they devolved and sprouted the horns similar to a wild beast. For
this reason, it is reasonable to assume that in Ancient society, Shek
were 'evolved' humans (either through genetic modification, which the
Ancients surely possessed, or selective breeding) and served as the
central authority of law and order.Â 

[Category:Lore](Category:Lore "wikilink")