**(WARNING: This guide will be edited and changed on the future, as I
play more and discover more about the game)**

Welcome, Wanderer

In this General Guide, you'll find some information about the general
strategies of your average Kenshi player, including some side notes
regarding a couple of game mechanics that you may use for your
advantage.

## Starting at Kenshi

### What should I do?

Your main approach, goals and milestones will depend completely on what
kind of backstory you'll make for your character. Keep in mind that in
Kenshi, you're not a character, you're the narrator, and ultimately,
it'll be up to YOU what kind of story you wish to tell.

Some people prefer an easier game, and might choose an easy life as a
farmer or a merchant in one of the major cities, where your worries
regarding your own safety can be handled by the faction's guards. Some
others may prefer a hardcore approach, building up an empire from
scratch, and might choose to start as a beggar or perhaps a wanted
criminal. And there's those who want a white canvas, starting as a
Wanderer and building up their tale as they play. Whatever your approach
is, each have their own gameplay style, and I cannot describe what you
SHOULD do, but rather what you CAN do.

### What can I do?

In Kenshi, like I said, there's multiple approaches to what kind of
gameplay you want to try out. You can build your own outpost, hire
drifters to help you out, enslave and recruit random people to work for
you, travel through cities as a caravan trader, or simply build up an
army of misfits and cause chaos alongside other raider factions.
Regardless of what you choose, keep in mind that your success regarding
that depends plenty on your skill.

### What's the best place to start?

In Kenshi you don't select where you start, but rather how you start.
Each part of the map have their own pros and cons, having their own way
of building up from scratch. Some places are fertile and rich in water,
great for farming, but greatly lacking in mineral resources, which means
you'll rely a lot on vendors if you are to build up our outpost from
scratch. Meanwhile, there's others where you'll find plenty of minerals
such as Copper and Iron, but due to the arid nature, it'll be harder to
conduct activities like farming. The same logic can be applied to the
many factions at Kenshi, where each of them have their own philosophy,
and it relies on you whether you'll comply to them, or reject them.

### How do I finish the game?

The game has no ending. There's no cutscene, and despite having many
bosses, none of them can be considered the "Final Boss". The game ends
whenever you close it, and starts whenever you open it.

## Chapter 1 - Survival

Whenever you start at Kenshi, you'll have to keep in mind some core
concepts that will help you survive in the aggressive wastelands of
Kenshi. Some of them are concepts that are taught in the game, while
others are "Custom Concepts" that I ended up experiencing during my
gameplay of Kenshi, both Vanilla and Modded.

There's 5 main concepts you should be aware of: Health, Food, Combat,
Crime and Reputation.

### Health - "The bleeding is internal, that's where the blood's supposed to be!"

During your time at Kenshi, you'll quickly realize that the most
important part of staying alive at Kenshi, is staying alive at Kenshi.
You're prone to take a LOT of damage while playing the game, and the
damage you take usually takes some time to treat and heal, so the best
way of surviving in Kenshi is keeping your eye on the damage you take.

The health at Kenshi works differently than most games, and instead of
having a single bar representing your health as a whole, you'll have
multiple bars, each of them representing a section of your body that
will take the damage, each with a different kind of effect on your
health. There's 4 colors for the bars, and 1 effect that represent what
is happening to that section:

- Green Bar - Solid Health: This is the health your limb effectively
  has. Every time you take damage, it'll lower and reduce the health of
  the body part.
- Yellow Bar - Temporary Health: This is the health your limb is
  currently regenerating. Whenever it's patched up, you'll gain a
  "Temporary Health" that can help you escape a couple of death blows,
  but unlike the "Solid Health", they'll lower way quicker from the
  damage taken and quickly put you in danger.
- Red Bar - Lingering Health: This is the health your limb is lacking
  from the damage taken, but don't worry, because this health can be
  regained by using medical items to heal it. Once you're healing the
  missing health, it'll be replaced by a yellow bar, and will allow to
  keep the limb relatively functional for long enough for it to recover
  properly.
- Black Bar - No Health: This is the health your limb is lacking from
  the heavy damage taken. Once you're hit too much in a certain part,
  eventually, you'll run out of places to patch it up, therefore
  effectively lowering your max health in order to force you to rest and
  recover. The only way of recovering from the black bar is forcing your
  character to rest, letting your body naturally heal.

The damage taken can also be separated into many different groups, but
for the time being, I'll simplify them by only saying 2: Minor Wounds
and Major Wounds.

#### Minor Wounds - "Tis' but a scratch!"

A wound can be called a "Minor Wound" when the body part's health is
still a POSITIVE number. As long as the section's health is above 0, the
damage taken can still be considered a Minor Wound, and easily recovered
by using medical items. They provide some debuffs to your character,
lowering his combat speed or strength depending on how badly damaged the
section is (Ex. If your arm is heavily damaged, you cannot wield
two-handed weapons. And if your leg is heavily damaged, you may become
crippled and will have to drag yourself across the field).

#### Major Wounds - "My greatest weakness! Dying!"

A wound can be called a "Major Wound" when the body part's health is a
NEGATIVE number. Whenever the part reaches a number below 0, that body
part is going critical, and may start causing problems that can lead
your character to a "Dying" or "Critical" state. When your wounds reach
this scenario, it's better to enter "Sneak" mode and fake death, leaving
your character immobile until the enemy is away, so you can properly
patch yourself up and leave that place (if you're the only character
available and nearby). Some problematic side effects that may come from
this are:

##### Blood Loss KO

When your blood reaches a negative level, you may find your character
unconscious due to a "Blood Loss KO". This condition will force them to
remain unconscious until their body start to naturally recover it all
the way to a positive level, leaving them unavailable to be used.

##### Crippled

When your limbs reach a negative health, they'll be rendered useless and
you might become crippled. While crippled, you'll face restrictions
regarding what kind of equipment you can use, forcing you to wield
one-handed weapons, or even debilitating you to the point where you
cannot fight back, either by breaking both your arms, or breaking your
legs and forcing you to drag yourself on the ground.

##### Malnourishment

When your hunger gets to a critical state, you'll suffer a great debuff
on ALL your stats. This will affect your combat skills and can even get
you killed by making you too slow to block an enemy, or too weak to
actually cause any significant damage.

### Food - "Only those who starve know the true value of food"

In order to keep yourself healthy, it is important to always keep you
and your crew stocked up and well fed. During long journeys, it's good
to keep your inventory stacked with at least a couple portions of Dried
Meat or Dried Fish, which are easier to find and stock up (just hunt a
couple of animals and cook the meat in a campfire). If you neglect your
hunger for too long, you'll end up facing plenty of long-term problems
that will bring the character into a painful demise.

### Combat -

[Category:Guides](Category:Guides "wikilink")