**Hobbs** is a free [Unique Recruit](Unique_Recruits.md "wikilink"). He is
a crazy old man with many stories to tell. He most often spawns in the
[Fishing Village](Fishing_Village_(Northern_Coast).md "wikilink"),
typically hanging around the bar or wandering around town; however, he
has a small chance to spawn in a variety of other location across the
map, including [Mourn](Mourn.md "wikilink"), [The Hub](The_Hub.md "wikilink"),
[Waystations](Waystation.md "wikilink"), [](World's_End.md), as well as several [](Town_Overrides.md).

He will join you for free if you choose the dialogue options in which
you act interested in his legends. Insulting him or telling him to leave
you alone will disable you from speaking to him again, and you can no
longer recruit him through conventional means for the remainder of that
save game.

He is often one of the earliest followers many players obtain, due to
his lack of a recruitment fee and generally above average skills.

## Dialogue

### Recruiting

\*\*\* Hobbs dialogue on 18 Jan 2020, in The Hub \*\*\*

Hobbs: Yes, that's it, have a drink on me... say, have you ever heard
the story of the wailing phantom?

\[Player\]: No, what's it about?

Hobbs: Well, legend has it that it dwells in a sunken cave, south of the
dunes. I hear it has bones made of solid diamond - just one tooth would
fetch you kabillions - no, poobillions - of Cats! It has the gigantic
tongue of a lusty tree hag and a marvellous pair of bingo wings that
droop like smooth potato butter. Some even say that it has the snout of
fondled truffle! Even the most handsomest of man-warriors haven't been
able to hunt the peppery thing down.

\[Player\]: That... sounds AMAZING! How do I find it?

Hobbs: If I knew that, I would have tracked it down myself. But if
you're going to head out in search of it, you must take me with you.
Call it an old dying man's last wish!

\[Player\]: You're dying? What's wrong with you?

Hobbs: Aren't we all slowly dying together in this cruel world?... Yes!
And this dying man wishes to witness that beautiful, mysterious beast
for himself. They say that if you quaff it's inner syrups then you'll
gain the power of balmy immortality! Oh! And that true love's smooch
will transform the beast into a glorious man-cherub whom will grant you
all your deepest hankerings...

\[Player\]: You're right - wise words! Join with us, let's find it
together \[choice\]

Hobbs: Lead the way!

\*\*\* Other Dialogue \*\*\*

Hobbs: Yes, that's it, have a drink on me... say, have you ever heard
the story of the wailing phantom?

\[Player\]: No, what's it about? \[choice\]

Hobbs: Well, legend has it that it nests deep, deep into the forest.
they say it preys on lost travellers, feeds on their souls and makes
rotting loinclothes out of their neck skins. apparently, survivors have
told that it has pungent potato odor and has eyes that resemble
surprised truffles. there was one particularly handsome man-warrior that
once very nearly slayed the beast, but he choked on a boiled potato two
and a half weeks ago

\[Player\]: That... that sounds AMAZING! How do I find it? \[choice\]

Hobbs: If I knew that, I would have tracked it down myself. But if
you're going to head out in search of it, you must take me with you.
Call it an old dying man's last wish!

\[Player\]: You're dying? What's wrong with you? \[choice\]

Hobbs: aren't we all slowly dying in this relentless, dark world?...
Yes! And this dying man wishes to witness that diabotical monster with
his own two eyes. They say that if you lick on of it's pinky toes then
you'll gain the power of sweet balmy immortality! Oh! And that true
love's smooth will transform the beast into a glorious man-cherub whom
will grant you all of your deepest munchies...

\[Player\]: You're right - wise words! Join with us, let's find it
together \[choice\]

Hobbs: Lead the way!

---

### Whilst Traveling

Hobbs: You know, there was a time once when I wrestled a randy gorillo
with my bare hands...

Hobbs: Right here, it was. I sipped a very large amount of rum so it was
the most wobbly of battles!

Hobbs: But I did it! I taught the randy gorillo a lesson in manners and
restraint, so I did...

Hobbs: then we sat down together at the campfire and we talked about
those pesky cacti. He gave me a-

\[Player\]: Alright, alright, gramps. Nap time soon...

\[Player\]: Take a sip of your own medicine and save us from your
stories, would you?

Hobbs: afraid I'm all out. The 'ol rum bottle's completely drained, so
it is...

---

**Whilst Travelling**

Hobbs: ...

\[Player\]: So, uh... we've been travelling a while now. You've not
mentioned your 'legend' since the bar...

Hobbs: Legend? What legend?

\[Player\]: The legend you joined with us to search for. The wailing
banshee or whatever it was...

\[Player\]: And something about truffles...

Hobbs: Waling banshee?...

Hobbs: I don't know about that. Sounds awfully silly...

\[Player\]: Seriously?... But...

Hobbs: \*yawn\*

[ru:Хоббс](ru:Хоббс "wikilink")

[Category:Characters](Category:Characters "wikilink")
[Category:Unique](Category:Unique "wikilink")
[Category:Playable](Category:Playable "wikilink")