A door/container is indicated as being locked when the cursor changes to
a padlock symbol when moused over. Lock picking can be initiated by
holding down the ALT key and right clicking or hold right click and
selecting the "Lockpick" option. Your selected character will then move
to and attempt to pick the lock. Progress is represented by a bar that
fills in from left to right where, at the end of each cycle, your
character has a % chance of succeeding. This is represented by the
percentage in the lock picking progress bar. When failing the time it
takes to pick the lock again is randomized a bit.

It is possible for a lock to be too far out of your character's skill
range - your character will state that their skill is not high enough. A
character needs to have at least 5% chance to attempt lockpicking. The
required level is around 41.69 lockpicking below the complexity of the
lock, meaning that to open a level 100 lock, a lockpicking skill of
around 58.31 would be needed at minimum.

[Locksmith Training Boxes](Locksmith_Training_Box.md "wikilink") can be
used to improve the skill without putting yourself into dangerous
situations, however it takes a very long time to level this way. But it
can be useful during the early game, when success chances are extremely
low therefore disallowing you from even attempting and preventing you
from improving the skill. Aside from building these training tools
yourself, they can be accessed in [](Shinobi_Thieves.md) towers if you are allied to them.

Similarly, to other training equipment, a character may train
lockpicking only to a certain level, beyond which your character will
still "train" but no progress will be made to the next level.

A good way to train this higher than boxes will allow is to find an
abandoned/isolated prisoner cage (for example, in the ruined city of
[Bast](Bast.md "wikilink")) that allows you to get in and pick your way
out. If you try this in a populated city the guards will just come let
you out. It's important to note that successful pick attempts yield 5
times more XP compared to failing attempts, so it is more time efficient
to successfully pick a lower level cage rather than fail off a higher
level one.

## Trivia/Info

- The formula for the lockpicking success chance is 90/(2^(Lockpick
  complexity-Lockpicking/10)). With a maximum chance of 90%, and no
  possibility to attempt to unlock a container if the chance is below
  5%.
- When imprisoned, you receive a -10 Lockpicking debuff. This debuff
  will not prevent you from opening cages you would be able to open
  ordinarily. For example, if you have level 0 Lockpicking and are
  placed into a level 40 cage your chance to unlock it will become
  2.8125%. As the normal chance to unlock this level 40 cage is 5.625%
  (above 5%), you will still be able to unlock it.

[Category:Statistics](Category:Statistics "wikilink")