The** Main Menu** is the first actionable screen which players see upon
opening Kenshi. Many buttons here are also available through hitting Esc
while in game.

### Continue

When clicked, immediately loads the last save file you played with from
the **Saves**folder.

### New Game

Opens up the "Choose Your Beginning" menu to choose the [](Game_Starts.md) you would like. Options range from a poor
man with a dog, or a man hated by the Holy Nation that has a sword and a
thousand cats! (The money cats)

Opens up the "*Choose Your Beginning*" menu to choose what [](Game_Starts.md) you would like. Your options range from a
homeless traveler with a canine companion, to a traveling Trader with a
pack animal, to an armless left-for-dead traveler that was dumped in the
middle of a desert! The choice is yours! Difficulty depends on your
option.

(*NOTE**:**Does not delete any saves that you previously had, so you can
start as many games as you want.*)

### Load Game

Opens up a list of save files that you have stored to pick & choose
which game you would like to continue.

### Import

Opens up a list of save files to Import. Importing a save allows you to
modify some options in the "*Advanced*" area. Importing your save files
when you install new mods *or*when the game updates can save your save
file from possible corruption and / or issues.

#### *Import Buildings option*


"*Import Buildings*" imports all buildings (*this includes outposts,
houses, and farmsteads*) that the player owns into an alternate save
file. This allows you to save time with new characters, or create a
safespace for a character earlier.

#### *Import Research option*


Import Research carries over all the research you've done up to the
point of that savegame.

"*Import Research*" imports all research (*i.e all of the stuff in the
tech tree that your characters have researched*) into an alternate save
file. This allows you to save time with research when starting a new
game.

#### *Import Dead NPCs*option


Import Dead NPCs preserves the statuses of unique NPCs in the world

If a character is dead, they will stay dead. If they were imprisoned
they will fail to spawn, but the game will still consider them as
imprisoned. While unchecking the option will bring back characters who
have been killed or imprisoned over the course of the imported savegame.
If you previously killed Esata of the Shek Kingdom, for example,
un-checking this option would bring her back to life.

If unchecked this will also bring back dead unique party members (though
you will need to recruit them again), and sometimes already recruited
but still living party members respawn as well. This can cause some
strange occurences, such as being able to recruit an identical clone of
a unique party member. For example, if you recruited Beep in the
previous save file, you might be able to recruit him *again*. Though it
is inconsistent whether the bug occurs.

#### *Import Relations*option


Import relations preserves your relationships with other factions.

For example, if you have allied with the Shek Kingdom they will still be
your allies with the option checked, while if left un-checked they will
return to 0 relations. This is true for enemy factions as well, who will
return to being non-hostile if you upset them previously. This will not
however make a faction that is initially hostile neutral to you, Fogmen
and the like will still attack you on sight no matter what.

### Options

Opens up the [Options Menu](Options_Menu.md "wikilink"). Allows you to
change a variety of things including Font Size, and modify settings that
have to do with the game graphically and audibly. Also includes a
subsection that allows you see what mods you currently have enabled,
which can be useful to avoid save-file corruption or overlaps.

### Credits

[Credits](Credits.md "wikilink") for Kenshi! Includes the famous "*Chris
Hunt*"! Lots of great people.

### Exit

Simply closes the game.

[Category:User Interfaces](Category:User_Interfaces "wikilink")