![](Stobe1.png "Stobe1.png") **Stobe** is a character in Kenshi lore.
The two zones [Stobe's Gamble](Stobe's_Gamble.md "wikilink") and [](Stobe's_Garden.md) are named in honor of him. His
remains can be found in Stobe's Garden, east of a [](Reaver_Camp.md) and west of [Ark](Ark.md "wikilink"). 

The [Skeleton Bandits](Skeleton_Bandits.md "wikilink") often speak about
Stobe.[^1] They, along with most Skeletons[^2], seem to acknowledge him
as a deity. Though it is not known explicitly what he did to earn this
respect, a few conclusions can be made:

- Whatever Stobe did, it was enough to earn the respect of *all*
  Skeletons (at least the ones you can play as[^3], and that acknowledge
  his existence).
- He *might* be a behemoth. Stobe while being significantly larger than
  your average Skeleton is also significantly smaller than the Behemoth
  bodies found in Obedience, whilst also looking significantly
  different. Most Skeleton behemoths died in the massacre at Obedience
  or the war leading up to it[^4], but he seems to have survived—or,
  perhaps, he was the reason the massacre was deemed necessary.
- Skeletons do not seem to agree on what Stobe was supposed to represent
  and achieve. [Elder](Elder.md "wikilink"), the leader of [](Skeleton_Bandits.md), calls him an "exterminator of
  the human plague", but also a "martyr".[^5]
  - If a Skeleton character interacts with Elder, the only response that
    the said Skeleton can state in response to Elder's dialogue is that
    Stobe being "exterminator of the human plague" is a lie and that
    Elder himself is also aware of it.[^6] This is verifiable as true
    given the existence of Humans in Kenshi. However, it's unclear if
    Stobe had the intention of exterminating humans but failed, or did
    not have such intention to begin with.
  - In the same branch of dialogue above, Elder also states that calling
    Stobe "exterminator of the human plague" is a "justice" that is
    "ironic". And that through this "Stobe is finally getting the
    recognition he deserves" and "a fitting retribution to top it off".
    It is unclear or at least not explicitly stated in what exact sense
    it's ironical in, who the target of retribution is, and if Elder
    wants Stobe to have recognition out of veneration or vilification
    for/against him.

Stobe's death is mostly shrouded in mystery. Stobe's 'Gamble', as a
name, seems to imply it was the site where he met his demise, with the
'Garden' being where life went on. Not too far from where Stobe lay
dead, you can find what appears to be a rocket or missile partially
buried in the sand. Unlike most random space junk in the world, this
world item seems deliberately placed. Perhaps this was the Ancients'
contingency plan to end life on Kenshi following their collapse or
abandonment of the island/planet, which Stobe sacrificed himself to
stop. This would make more sense than a showdown where Stobe was
'killed' by an army or another Behemoth, as whatever killed him would
then go on to kill the other races he tried to preserve. In the case of
a rocket or missile, it would not go on to kill—even if Stobe dies in
the process of stopping it.

There are clearly holes in this theory; but it seems the most plausible
given the lack of additional information in-game and environmental
storytelling surrounding Stobe and the area his husk inhabits.

## References

[ru:Стоб](ru:Стоб "wikilink")

[Category:Lore](Category:Lore "wikilink")
[Category:Characters](Category:Characters "wikilink")

[^1]: Dialogue package "Skeleton bandit - BASE", linked to characters
    [Broken Skeleton Bandit](Broken_Skeleton_Bandit.md "wikilink"),
    [Skeleton Bandit](Skeleton_Bandit.md "wikilink"), [](Upgraded_Skeleton_Bandit.md), and [](Upgraded_Skeleton_Guard.md), as well as the Dialogue
    Packages "Skeleton bandit - HQ" and "Skeleton Bandit patrol", both
    of which inherit dialogue from "Skeleton bandit - BASE" (Forgotten
    Construction Set v1.0.19). Retrieved 3/27/2019

[^2]: Dialogue "biome - stobes garden", arrival dialog linked to the
    Spawn Area [Stobe's Garden](Stobe's_Garden.md "wikilink") (Forgotten
    Construction Set v1.0.19). Retrieved 3/27/2019

[^3]:

[^4]: Dialogue "biome obedience", arrival dialog linked to the Spawn
    Area [Obedience](Obedience.md "wikilink") (Forgotten Construction Set
    v1.0.19). Retrieved 3/27/2019

[^5]: Dialogue "The elder talk to", EV_PLAYER_TALK_TO_ME dialogue linked
    to Dialogue Package "Skeleton bandit -The Elder" which is
    exclusively used by [Elder](Elder.md "wikilink") (Forgotten
    Construction Set v1.0.19). Retrieved 3/27/2019

[^6]: