**Swamper Casino Dealers**are unnamed members of the
[Blackshifters](Blackshifters.md "wikilink"). They can be found manning the
[Blackshifter Casino Bars](Blackshifter_Casino_Bar.md "wikilink").

Unlike normal Bars, the player cannot buy food and supplies from the
Casino Dealer. Instead, they are invited for a game of catcrawlers.

## How to Play: Catcrawlers

*Fill out with information and better gambler slang.*

Catcrawlers is a relatively simple game. There are seven ranks in
ascending order: *wolf tail*, *buxom red*, *chubby nine*, *stone
roller*, *hungry gutter*, *arrow in the neck*, and *plank.*

The player pays 100 Cats upfront while the dealer will randomly choose
from between *buxom red* and *arrow in the neck*. He will reveal what he
got and ask the player to *Fish* or *Roll Back,* and will then roll a
second time.

Choosing to *Fish* will cause the player to win if the second roll is
ranked to the right of the first roll. Choosing *Roll Back* will cause
the opposite. The player will have then **licked it** and will receive
200 Cats. Losing will be called a **dryout**.

For example, if the dealer rolls a *chubby nine* and the player
*Fishes,* then the dealer rolls an *arrow in the neck,* the player will
have *licked it,* and they receive 200 Cats. If the player instead
played a *Roll Back* then it will be a *dryout*and the player loses.

If the first roll is *buxom red*, choosing *Roll Back* and getting *wolf
tail* will cause the player to receive the jackpot of 600 Cats. The same
happens if the first roll is *arrow in the neck* and the player chooses
*Fish* with the second roll being *plank*.

The most optimum strategy would be to *Fish* for *buxom red*and *chubby
nine,*and to *Roll Back* for *hungry gutter* and *arrow in the neck*.
For *stone roller,* the odds are equal for both *Fish*and *Roll Back*.
The chance of getting a jackpot (see above) is only 16.78%, and it is
far more reliable to bet safely rather than go for a jackpot.

[Category:Characters](Category:Characters "wikilink")